[docs]: add mastra integration example (#161)
humanlayer/humanlayer: docs/frameworks/mastra.mdx

---
title: "Mastra"
description: "Use Humanlayer with Mastra, the TypeScript AI Framework"
icon: "solar-system"
---

## Overview

[Mastra](https://mastra.ai) is a TypeScript framework for building AI applications. HumanLayer adds human oversight to your AI features.

## Getting Started with Mastra

### Installation

The easiest way to get started with Mastra is to use `create-mastra`:

```bash
npx create-mastra@latest
```

This command will guide you through setting up a new Mastra project with all the necessary configurations.

<Tip>
  For more installation and project set up details, check Mastra's documentation
  [here](https://mastra.ai/docs)
</Tip>

### Model Providers

<Info>

>   While Google's Gemini models are used in the examples below, Mastra supports

Reviewer: fine to use gemini, but at least one of the examples uses `openai("gpt-4")`

```suggestion
  While a mix of OpenAI and Google Gemini models are used in the examples below, Mastra supports
```

  all models available through the AI SDK:
</Info>

- OpenAI: `import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai"`
- Anthropic: `import { anthropic } from "@ai-sdk/anthropic"`
- Google: `import { google } from "@ai-sdk/google"`
- And more...

### Running Your Project

Once your project is set up, you can run it using:

```bash
npm run dev
```

This will start your Mastra application, and you can access the playground at:

```
http://localhost:4111
```

> 

Reviewer: the default agent seemed to be broken when I ran this workflow - https://www.loom.com/share/d21acab6278f4ac9b788998a2fd1bd5f

Mastra provides flexible options for integrating tools into your AI agents.

### Vercel AI SDK Tool Format

<Info>
  Mastra supports tools created using the Vercel AI SDK format. The HumanLayer
  integration with Mastra uses this tool format.
</Info>

```typescript src/mastra/tools/vercelTools.ts
import { tool } from "ai";
import { z } from "zod";

export const weatherInfo = tool({
  description: "Fetches the current weather information for a given city",
  parameters: z.object({
    city: z.string().describe("The city to get weather for"),
  }),
  execute: async ({ city }) => {
    // Replace with actual API call
    const data = await fetch(`https://api.example.com/weather?city=${city}`);
    return data.json();
  },
});
```

You can use Vercel tools alongside Mastra tools in your agents:

```typescript src/mastra/agents/weatherAgent.ts
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { weatherInfo } from "../tools/vercelTools";
import * as mastraTools from "../tools/mastraTools";

export const weatherAgent = new Agent({
  name: "Weather Agent",
  instructions:
    "You are a helpful assistant that provides weather information.",

>   model: openai("gpt-4"),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  model: openai("gpt-4o"),
```

  tools: {
    weatherInfo, // Vercel tool
    ...mastraTools, // Mastra tools
  },
});
```

<Note>
  Both tool formats will work seamlessly within your agent's workflow.
</Note>

## Basic Example

Here's a simple example showing how to use HumanLayer with Mastra:

> 

Reviewer: So far, this doesn't feel like a step-by-step guide - for the best chance of user success (with both HL *and* mastra) I'd love to have a little more direction like "hey add X to file Y". I don't know where to put this file, I just have the example.

Reviewer: also, the steps above, it seems now like those are just demonstrative, and I'm not actually expected to put those files anywhere. This was confusing, esp because they have file names in the code block

```typescript
import { tool } from "ai";
import { Agent } from "@mastra/core/agent";

> import { Memory } from "@mastra/memory";

Reviewer: this seems to break by default  - do i need to install another package? if so that should be noted in the guide

```
$ npm run dev

> mastra@1.0.0 dev
> mastra dev

INFO [2025-04-07 12:26:32.114 -0700] (BUNDLER - Dev): Starting watcher...
INFO [2025-04-07 12:26:32.312 -0700] (BUNDLER - Dev): Bundling finished, starting server...
INFO [2025-04-07 12:26:32.315 -0700] (Mastra CLI): [Mastra Dev] - Starting server...
node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:854
  throw new ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND(packageName, fileURLToPath(base), null);
        ^

Error [ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND]: Cannot find package '@mastra/memory' imported from /Users/dex/go/src/github.com/humanlayer/humanlayer/examples/mastra/.mastra/output/index.mjs
    at packageResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:854:9)
    at moduleResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:927:18)
    at defaultResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/resolve:1169:11)
    at ModuleLoader.defaultResolve (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:542:12)
    at ModuleLoader.resolve (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:510:25)
    at ModuleLoader.getModuleJob (node:internal/modules/esm/loader:239:38)
    at ModuleWrap.<anonymous> (node:internal/modules/esm/module_job:96:40)
    at link (node:internal/modules/esm/module_job:95:36) {
  code: 'ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND'
}

Node.js v20.18.0
ERROR [2025-04-07 12:26:34.833 -0700] (Mastra CLI): Server failed to start with error:
    message: null
```

Reviewer: trying 

```
 npm i @mastra/memory
```

Reviewer: working now, although FYI it printed a ton of warnings

<img width="799" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-07 at 12 29 07 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/677c3ebd-6ad9-42e8-a822-e8d8d2bee3e8" />

import { google } from "@ai-sdk/google";
import { humanlayer } from "humanlayer-vercel-ai-sdk";
import { z } from "zod";

const hl = humanlayer({
  verbose: true,
});

// Simple math operations
const add = tool({
  parameters: z.object({
    a: z.number(),
    b: z.number(),
  }),
  execute: async (args) => {
    return args.a + args.b;
  },
});

// Multiply requires approval
const multiplyTool = tool({
  parameters: z.object({
    a: z.number(),
    b: z.number(),
  }),
  execute: async (args) => {
    return args.a * args.b;
  },
});

// Wrap multiply with approval requirement
const multiply = hl.requireApproval({ multiplyTool });

// Human consultation tool
const contactHuman = hl.humanAsTool();

// Create a Mastra agent
const mathAgent = new Agent({
  name: "math-agent",
  instructions:
    "You are a helpful math assistant. Use the provided tools to perform calculations.",
  model: google("gemini-2.0-flash-001"),
  tools: { add, multiply, contactHuman },
  memory: new Memory(),
});
```

> 

Reviewer: after commenting out the memory lines, i get stuck on this error. I can't find where in *my* code its sending `your-api-key` as the openai API key, but I am kinda surprised that it doesn't just pull from env `OPENAI_API_KEY` - regardless of what model/provider is used, this guide should provide guidance on setting it if non-standard method. (although I'd prefer if mastra just took it from my env)

<img width="2020" alt="Screenshot 2025-04-07 at 12 35 14 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/476a1695-bdf9-43c7-b596-93a86db094fe" />

import { tool } from "ai";
import { humanlayer } from "humanlayer-vercel-ai-sdk";

const hl = humanlayer({ verbose: true });

const checkAvailableIngredients = tool({
  description: "Checks the available ingredients",
  parameters: z.object({}),
  execute: async () => {
    // Hardcoded list of available ingredients with categories and quantities
    return [
      {
        category: "Proteins",
        items: [
          { name: "Chicken breast", quantity: "1 lb", expiresIn: "2 days" },
          { name: "Ground beef", quantity: "0.5 lb", expiresIn: "1 day" },
          { name: "Eggs", quantity: "6", expiresIn: "1 week" },
          { name: "Tofu", quantity: "1 block", expiresIn: "5 days" },
        ],
      },
      {
        category: "Vegetables",
        items: [
          { name: "Onions", quantity: "3", expiresIn: "2 weeks" },
          { name: "Bell peppers", quantity: "2", expiresIn: "4 days" },
          { name: "Carrots", quantity: "5", expiresIn: "10 days" },
          { name: "Spinach", quantity: "1 bag", expiresIn: "3 days" },
          { name: "Tomatoes", quantity: "4", expiresIn: "5 days" },
        ],
      },
      // More categories...
    ];
  },

> });

Reviewer: canonical use cases with humanlayer tend to have no-approval on read operations, and only require approval on write operations...how about

```
{
    tools: [
      checkAvailableIngredients,
      hl.requireApproval(cook),
    ]
}
```
